docs: add glossary (#375)
epics-extensions/EPNix: docs/glossary.md

# Glossary

::::{glossary}

> **Nix**

Reviewer: Sorry, I meant removing the boldness from all glossary terms

> **Nix**

Author: No problem. Done with ed15292

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/gettingStarted.html?highlight=app#usage>.

  :::

**Sup**
  An EPICS Sup (also called support application)
  refers to another directory inside a Top
  (the name of that directory has to be suffixed with `Sup`).
  When compiling/building a Top,
  Sups are meant to be built before Apps,
  in order to be used by Apps.
  For example: the `devOpcuaSup` directory
  inside the [opcua Top](https://github.com/epics-modules/opcua/tree/master).

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/gettingStarted.html#building-ioc-components>

  :::

**IOC**
  Input/Output Controller. This is the I/O server component of EPICS.
  Almost any computing platform that can support EPICS basic components,
  like databases and network communication,
  can be used as an IOC.
  One example is a regular desktop computer,
  other examples are systems based on real-time operating systems
  (like vxWorks or RTEMS)
  and running on dedicated modular computing platforms
  (like MicroTCA, VME or CompactPCI).
  EPICS IOC can also run on low-cost hardware

>   (like RaspberryPi or similar).

Author: I agree.

I actually don't see the point of explaining here which type of hardware can be the "Hardware IOC" / "IOC machine".

I propose to remove this paragraph altogether, like done here: dd1f693

  A Template file (`.template`) is just like a `.db` file,
  but also including macro(s).

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#example-7>
  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/specs/EPICSBuildFacility.html?highlight=template#templates>

  :::

**`.dbd` file**
  A DataBase Definition file is an EPICS "configuration" file
  containing any sort of definitions except for record instances/implementations
  (like found in the `.db` and `.template` files),
  because record instances/implementations are fundamentally different
  from the other definitions.

  A file containing record instances
  should never contain any of the other definitions and vice-versa.

  The definitions covered by a `.dbd` file include "Menus", "Record Types", "Devices",
  "Drivers", "Registrars", "Variables", "Functions", "Breakpoint Tables",
  "Record Instances"...

  :::{seealso}

  <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html>

  :::

**`.substitutions` file**
  A `.substitutions` file is an EPICS "configuration" file
  that allows to load one or more `.template` files, multiple times.

>   The syntax of a `.substitutions` file is covered in
>   [this documentation](https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#template-file-syntax)
>   and the format of a `.substitutions` file is covered in
>   [this documentation](https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#template-file-formats).

Reviewer: I've seen in some documentation recommendation that each link text must be ideally unique and descriptive:

(source: https://designsystem.digital.gov/components/link/)

```suggestion
  See the [template file syntax documentation](https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#template-file-syntax)
  and the [template file format documentation](https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#template-file-formats)
  of a `.substitutions` file.
```

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=template#dbloadtemplate>

  :::

**`.cmd` file**

>   A `.cmd` file is an EPICS executable file
>   that starts with a [Shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix))
>   instructing the program loader to run the associated IOC program,
>   passing the content of the `.cmd` file as the first argument.
> 
>   This `.cmd` file is mostly used to run the IOC program
>   after loading all the associated EPICS "configuration" files
>   (e.g. `.dbd`, `.db`, `.template`, `.substitutions`, etc).

Reviewer: I think for a new user, the second description is going to be better.

I've also replaced `after` by `and`, because the `.cmd` files also does this.

```suggestion
  This `.cmd` file is mostly used to run the IOC program
  and loading all the associated EPICS "configuration" files
  (e.g. `.dbd`, `.db`, `.template`, `.substitutions`, etc).

  A `.cmd` file is an EPICS executable file
  that starts with a [Shebang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix))
  instructing the program loader to run the associated IOC program,
  passing the content of the `.cmd` file as the first argument.
```

  :::{seealso}

  <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/gettingStarted.html?highlight=cmd#run-the-ioc-example>

  :::

> **`iocBoot` directory**
>   TODO
> 
> **`bin` directory**
>   TODO
> 
> **`lib` directory**
>   TODO
> 
> **`db` directory**
>   TODO
> 
> **`dbd` directory**
>   TODO
> 
> **`configure` directory**
>   TODO

Reviewer: I think it's fine to remove them, since we have another page describing the files available in the default EPICS template: https://epics-extensions.github.io/EPNix/dev/ioc/explanations/template-files.html

```suggestion
```

Author: In the page you mention, there is nothing about the following directories: `bin`, `lib`, `db` and `dbd`.

And close to nothing about the `configure` and the `iocBoot` directories.

I think it would be for the best to have dedicated content in order to explain, in a few words, what's the purpose of those directories.

But this is not very high priority documentation, hence the "TODO" state.

Author: I just replaced all the remaining TODOs with actual content, like proposed here: dd1f6934, feel free to suggest improvements where you think it's necessary

**IOC Shell**

  Also called `iocsh`.

  The IOC Shell describes both the EPICS terminal shell which is launched
  after running an IOC programm,
  and the EPICS script language used to interact with that terminal shell
  (which is also used in the `.cmd` file).

  :::{seealso}

>   - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/gettingStarted.html?highlight=iocsh#chap:IOCShell>

Reviewer: There's no `#chap:IOCShell` anchor in this page. I see there's a section `iocsh`, but it's VXWorks-specific

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/process-database/EPICS_Process_Database_Concepts.html?highlight=PV#the-epics-process-database>
  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/appdevguide/databaseDefinition.html?highlight=record#record-record-instance>

  :::

**PV**
  A Process Variable is a value or variable accessible through EPICS communication protocols
  (Channel Access and PV Access).
  You can address this value using its unique PV name.

  In the technical sense,
  a PV is an "instantiated"/"implemented" record.
  I.e. once the IOC program is started,
  each previously defined record will have an associated PV running.
  A Record is just a blueprint for a PV.

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/internal/ca_protocol.html?highlight=Process%20Variable#process-variables>
  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/process-database/EPICS_Process_Database_Concepts.html?highlight=Process%20Variable>
  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/process-database/EPICS_Process_Database_Concepts.html?highlight=Process%20Variable#process-chains>

  :::

**Macro**
  A macro is a string substitution mechanism,

>   that will allow some EPICS "configuration" files to be loaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that allows some EPICS "configuration" files to be loaded
```

  after some strings have been replaced by others.

>   E.g. `MY-MACRO-NAME=toto`, will replace every `${MY-MACRO-NAME}` by `toto`

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether `-` are allowed in macro names, but it seems the underscore is more popular.

```suggestion
  E.g. `MY_MACRO_NAME=toto`, will replace every `${MY_MACRO_NAME}` by `toto`
```

  - `CONFIG`: EPICS configuration file for builds;
  - `CONFIG_SITE`: EPICS configuration file for application-specific builds;
  - `CONFIG_SITE.local`: EPICS configuration file allowing to override CONFIG_SITE without having to modify it;
  - `RELEASE`: EPICS configuration file for base and external support modules location;
  - `RELEASE.local`: EPICS configuration file allowing to override RELEASE without having to modify it;
  - `RULES`: EPICS configuration file including the appropriate rules configuration file;
  - `RULES.ioc`: EPICS build configuration file of the iocBoot/ sub-directorie(s);
  - `RULES_DIRS`: EPICS build configuration file of each subdirectory;
  - `RULES_TOP`: EPICS configuration file specific to a Top.

  :::{seealso}

  - <https://docs.epics-controls.org/en/latest/build-system/specifications.html#configuration-files>

  :::

**CA**
  Channel Access (CA) is the default communication protocol
  used between EPICS servers (i.e. IOCs)
  and EPICS clients
  (i.e. HMI monitoring tools, archiving softwares, alarms systems, etc).
  It is mostly used to share PVs information across a network.
  CA will use UDP to initiate a client-server communication,

>   and then use TCP for the rest of the communication.

Reviewer: I think the UDP connection depends on `EPICS_CA_AUTO_ADDR_LIST` and `EPICS_CA_ADDR_LIST`. I think it's best to leave the technical part of the protocol to other articles and resources, like the ones you've linked.

```suggestion
```
